
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# summary

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of the ‘summary’ package is to provide a set of functions
available for use during the initial stages of data analysis. This
package is intended to allow the user to become more familiar with their
data, by exploring the distribution of the various vectors/columns
within the data. For this purpose, the functions contained in this R
package provide visual displays of statistical summary tables on apsects
of the users’ data.

## Installation

You can install the ‘summary’ package by pasting and running the
following line in the console of an RStudio session:

``` r
devtools::install_github("Khushbu108/summary")
```

## Example Usage

``` r
library(summary)
```

The ‘qstat\_summary’ function from this package allows a quick glance of
the distribution of a numeric vector, with the calculated general
statistics displayed in a tabular format.

Here, we compute some general statistics of a numeric vector:

``` r
(qstat_summary(c(1.2, 5.6, 11.2, 4.9, 3.8)))
#> # A tibble: 1 x 7
#>    Mean `Standard Devia~ Minimum `First Quartile` Median `Third Quartile`
#>   <dbl>            <dbl>   <dbl>            <dbl>  <dbl>            <dbl>
#> 1  5.34             3.68     1.2              3.8    4.9              5.6
#> # ... with 1 more variable: Maximum <dbl>
```

## Package Development

To begin the development of the ‘summary’ R package, the ‘devtools’
package was loaded by running the following in the console of a new
RStudio session:

``` r
library(devtools)
```

The basic R package infrastructure was then created locally, by running
**create\_package(“local\_path”)** function in the R console.

This created a ‘summary’ folder at the specified location, containing
basic files such as ‘NAMESPACE’ and ‘DESCRIPTION’, as well as the ‘R’
folder and ‘summary’ R project file.

Next, **use\_git()** was run in the R console to initialize Git for
version control, and allow changes to be committed locally.

Then, **use\_r(“summary”)** was run in the R console, and this created a
blank ‘qstat\_summary.R’ file within the ‘R’ folder. The
‘qstat\_summary’ function was defined in this document and the
changes committed.

### Description and Documentation

The **DESCRIPTION** file was then opened in RStudio and the following
edits were made manually in the file:

1.  Title
2.  Author details
3.  Description

In addition, the **use\_mit\_license()** was run in the R console, which
created the ‘LICENSE’ files in the main ‘summary’ folder and
automatically updated the ‘License’ field in the ‘DESCRIPTION’ file.

The license is important to allow other users to access and use the
functions in this R package, as well as to allow them to modify and work
on the functions too.

Since the ‘qstat\_summary’ function depends on the ‘stats’ and ‘tibble’
packages, the following steps were performed to specify this:

1.  Within the ‘qstat\_summary.R’ script, the functions from these
    packages were loaded using the ‘::’ operators

2.  **use\_package(“stats”)** and **use\_package(“tibble”)** were run in
    the R console, to allow the addition of these packages under the
    ‘Imports’ field in the ‘DESCRIPTION’ file.

The ‘roxygen2’ package was then used to document the ‘qstat\_summary’
function. To do this, the roxygen2 skeleton was added add the top of the
‘qstat\_summary.R’ script and the title, parameters, return and examples
tags were edited manually.

To render this documentation, so that this information is available as
Help for users of the function, **document()** was run in the R console.
This created a ‘man’ folder, in the main ‘summary’ folder, containing
the documentation.

### Tests

**use\_testthat()** was run in the R console to create a ‘tests’ folder
in the main ‘summary’ folder with a dependency on the ‘testthat’
package, and the necessary files within.

Next, **use\_test(“qstat\_summary”)** was run in the R console, to
create a blank ‘test-qstat\_summary.R’ script within the ‘testthat’
folder. This R script was manually edited to include the tests for the
‘qstat\_summary’ function using the ‘testthat()’ function, and the
changes committed.

The tests were also checked by running **test()** in the R console to
ensure that everything was working properly.

### Higher-level documentation

#### Package README file

This was generated by running **use\_readme\_md()** was run in the R
console, which generated a ‘README.Rmd’ file in the main ‘summary’
folder.

This file was edited manually to include information about the package,
including installation details and example usage.

**build\_readme()** was then run in the R console to knit the
‘README.Rmd’ file to a ‘README.md’ file and run some necessary
background checks.

#### Vignettes

**use\_vignette("why\_summary)** was run in the R console, to generate a
‘vignettes’ folder in the main ‘summary’ folder, containing the
‘why\_summary.Rmd’ file.

This file was manually edited to include information about the reasons
behind developing the ‘summary’ package and future directions.

**build\_vignettes()** was then run in the R console to knit the
‘why\_summary.Rmd’ file and run the necessary background checks.
